***ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS BELOW***

Why do we need data structure?
Answer: The reason behind data structure  that  the data can be easily used and manipulated in the future.
        It is an effective way of performing various operations related to data management.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Answer: Traversing: Traversing a Data Structure means to visit the element stored in it.
        Searching:  This involves fetching some data stored in data structures like Arrays , List , Map , etc.
         This search operation determines the responsiveness of the application for the end-user



When would we use data structures in the real world?
Answer: Mostly everything and everyday.. Search Engine (Google), Buying Ticket online.

What is an Array?
Answer: An array is a data structure that contains a group of elements. Typically these elements are all of the same data type,
        such as an integer or string. Arrays are commonly used in computer programs to organize data so that a related set of values can be easily sorted or searched.

What is the difference between Array and ArrayList?
Answer: The main difference between Array vs ArrayList in Java is the static nature of the Array and the dynamic nature of ArrayList.
        Once created you can not change the size of Array but ArrayList can re-size itself when needed. Another notable difference
        between ArrayList and Array is that Array is part of core Java programming and has special syntax and semantics support
        in Java, While ArrayList is part of the Collection framework along with other popular classes like Vector, Hashtable, HashMap or LinkedList.

What is a LinkedList?
Answer: Often used to implement other data structures, such as stacks, queues and trees, a linked list is a linear data structure.
        Forming what can be thought of as a linked chain, a linked list is a sequence of nodes. Each node stores its own data
        and a pointer (address) to the location of the next node. The last link in a linked list points to null, indicating the end of the chain.

How is an Array different from LinkedList?
Answer: Arrays are index based data structure where each element associated with an index. On the other hand,
        Linked list relies on references where each node consists of the data and the references to the previous and next element.
        Another significant difference between an array and linked list is that Array has a fixed size and required to be declared prior,
        but Linked List is not restricted to size and expand and contract during execution.



What is a Queue?
Answer: Queue is an abstract data structure, somewhat similar to Stacks. Unlike stacks, a queue is open at both its ends.
        One end is always used to insert data (enqueue) and the other is used to remove data (dequeue).
         Queue follows First-In-First-Out methodology, i.e.,the data item stored first will be accessed first.

What is a Stack (not Java memory - refers to data structure)?
Answer: Stack is a subclass of Vector that implements a standard last-in, first-out stack.
        Stack only defines the default constructor, which creates an empty stack.
        Stack includes all the methods defined by Vector, and adds several of its own.

What is FIFO and LIFO?
Answer: FIFO stands for First-In-First-Out approach in programming.
        In this, the new element is inserted below the existing element,
        So that the oldest element can be at the top and taken out first.Therefore, the First element to be
        entered in this approach, gets out First.
        LIFO  stands for Last-In-First-Out approach in programming.In this, the new element is inserted above the existing element,
        So that the newest element can be at the top and taken out first.Therefore, the First element to be entered in this approach,
        gets out Last.

Explain Big O Notation?
Answer: Big O Notation is the language we use to describe the complexity of an algorithm. In other words, Big O Notation is the language
        we use for talking about how long an algorithm takes to run. It is how we compare the efficiency of different approaches to a problem.
         With Big O Notation we express the runtime in terms of — how quickly it grows relative to the input, as the input gets larger.

What is the best case to search an element from an array?
Answer: For an unsorted array, you have to search element by element, until the element is found or array is completely traversed.
        Element can be at 1st position, the last position or somewhere in between.


What is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Answer: The worst case arises when the element is at last position or not in the array, therefore we have to traverse the whole array giving n no.
        of repetitions over loop.Therefore the worst case time complexity is O(n).

Describe what a tree data structure is?
Answer: A tree data structure is a non-linear data structure because it does not store in a sequential manner.
It is a hierarchical structure as elements in a Tree are arranged in multiple levels. In the Tree data structure,
the topmost node is known as a root node. Each node contains some data, and data can be of any type.

Describe what a graph data structure is?
Answer: Graph is an abstract data type.
        It is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are connected by links.
        Graph is used to implement the undirected graph and directed graph concepts from mathematics.
        It represents many real life application. Graphs are used to represent the networks. Network includes path in a city, telephone network etc.
        It is used in social networks like Facebook, LinkedIn etc.

What is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Answer: Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not. This makes HashMap better for non-threaded applications,
        as unsynchronized Objects typically perform better than synchronized ones.
        Hashtable does not allow null keys or values. HashMap allows one null key and any number of null values.
        One of HashMap's subclasses is LinkedHashMap, so in the event that you'd want predictable iteration order
        (which is insertion order by default), you could easily swap out the HashMap for a LinkedHashMap. This wouldn't be as easy if you were using Hashtable.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model
Answer: RDBMS = Array (i.e. Array of structures)
        Network data model = Graph
        Hierarchical data model = Trees

How do HashMaps work in Java? How do they store values, and when are they useful?
Answer: HashMap stores the data in the form of key-value pairs. Each key-value pair is stored in an object of Entry<K, V> class.
        Entry<K, V> class is the static inner
        class of HashMap which is defined like below.
                        static class Entry<K,V> implements Map.Entry<K,V>
        {
                final K key;
                V value;
                Entry<K,V> next;
                int hash;

                //Some methods are defined here
        }
        As you see, this inner class has four fields. key, value, next and hash.

        key : It stores the key of an element and its final.

        value : It holds the value of an element.

        next : It holds the pointer to next key-value pair. This attribute makes the key-value pairs stored as a linked list.
        - HashMap  is used for storing Key & value pairs, it is denoted as HashMap<Key, Value> or HashMap<K, V>. This class makes no guarantees as to the order of the map.
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When does it occur?
Answer:

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Answer: Manually.
        Arrays.copyOf()
        System.arraycopy()
        Object.clone()

What is DFS and BFS?
Answer: DFS stands for Depth First Search is an edge based technique. It uses the Stack data structure,
        performs two stages, first visited vertices are pushed into stack
        and second if there is no vertices then visited vertices are popped.

        BFS stands for Breadth First Search is a vertex based technique for finding a shortest path in graph.
        It uses a Queue data structure which follows first in first out. In BFS, one vertex is selected at a
        time when it is visited and marked then its adjacent are visited and stored in the queue. It is slower than DFS.

What is Recursion?
Answer: A method that calls itself .
 A recursion function is used in situations where the same set of operations needs to be performed again and
 again till the result is reached.
What are linear and non-linear data Structures?
Answer: A linear data Structures if its elements are connected in a linear fashion by means of logical or in sequence memory locations.
        There are two ways to represent a linear data structure in memory,Static memory allocation and Dynamic memory allocation
        The possible operations on the linear data structure are Traversal, Insertion, Deletion, Searching, Sorting and Merging.
        Examples of Linear Data Structure are Stack and Queue.

        Nonlinear data structures are those data structures in which data items are not arranged in a sequence.
        Examples of Non-linear Data Structure are Tree and Graph.



Outline different sorting algorithms and their time complexities:


Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a) In terms of Accessing elements:
  b) In terms of Inserting elements:
  c) In terms of Searching elements:
  d) In terms of Removing elements:
  